So with the paginator added, in order for it to do something, I need to go to the back-end and there
in my app.js file or in the post.js
file I mean, where we have the route for fetching all posts, this route here, there we now need to implement
pagination
and I will do this with the help of so-called query parameters.
These are optional parameters, pieces of information you can add to your URL. You add them at
the end of the URL separated from your domain and path by a question mark and you can easily retrieve
them on the back-end in your Express app by accessing request and there, the query object,
this will hold the parsed query parameter information.
I can show you how this works.
Let's console log request query to see what's inside there,
let's save that and our back-end will restart
therefore and let's open new tab and there, I will enter http://www.localhost:3000/api/posts which
is our posts route and then question mark and then here for example page size equals two and page equals
one.
And this is now totally up to you,
you could also have pages here, any names you want or add another parameter, something equals cool, whatever
you want.
You separate them, all the query parameters from the path with this question mark and then the individual
query parameter pairs where you have a name and a value,
separated by equal,
these pairs are then separated by an & sign, by an ampersand.
If I now hit
enter,
we actually retrieve all posts,
so we still reach that route and it works as before
but in the log of our server, we actually see this object here,
page size two,
page one, something cool.
So this is the data we now retrieved because we send a request with these query parameters added.
So they're conveniently parsed for us and this of course allows us to use them to change our Mongoose query
to narrow down which amount of posts we fetch
and this can be done very easily.
First of all, let's retrieve that data from the query object.
So we get the page size and we can get it from request, query.pagesize,
all lowercase though that of course is up to you,
you define which kind of query parameters you accept in your API.
Another feature or value I want to extract is the current page and I get this from request
query page,
again these names here at the end are totally up to you,
you define what you want to extract and I'm simply creating an API which is able to work with these query
parameters
and now again we want to adjust our Mongoose query. The cool thing is if we don't pass page size and
page, then page size and current page will simply be undefined. So we can check whether page size and
current page are not undefined,
so we'll only make it into this if block if they are both set,
if they both contain values, to be precise if they contain valid values because if page size or current
page would be 0,
it would also be treated as invalid
but that is actually the behavior I want.
So now we can construct two different queries, this one to fetch all posts and then an adjusted one to
only fetch a selected slice of posts for a given page.
For this, I'll create a new constant and I'll name it postQuery because the cool thing about Mongoose is you can actually
structure queries by chaining multiple query methods which will narrow down your query and by default,
my post query is post find, so this query down there. It will not get executed immediately,
it will only get executed as soon as we call then and therefore, this will not execute it. So we can now
use post query down there to then execute it but we actually want to manipulate it here in case we get
a page size and a current page and there, we can use two useful methods provided by Mongoose. The first
one is the skip method and
this means we will not retrieve all elements we find, not all posts but we will skip the first n posts.
So you add page size times current page here
or to be precise,
current page
plus one
because if you are on page two, then you want to skip all items that were displayed on page one, right and
the items displayed on page one are the page size.
So if you are displaying 10 items per page, you want to skip 10 items because you are on page two,
so you want to display page size 10 times current page two, whoops, minus 1, so 2 - 1 is 1 of course, 10
* 1 would be 10, so we would skip 10 items.
If we are on page three, then we want to skip 20 items,
the items of the first two pages. So if the page size is 10,
we have 10 * 3 - 1 is 20.
Now that's giving us or that's skipping the previous pages,
we also want to narrow down the amount of documents we retrieve
for the current page and we do that by chaining another method, the limit method.
This limits the amount of documents we return
and here, we simply pass page size because if we got 10 items per page, then we want to limit the query
to only return 10 items.
Now important, this will still execute a query on all elements in the database,
this is how it works,
so for very large data sets, this could be inefficient and a link with a detailed discussion and some
possible work-arounds can be found in the last lecture of this module.
This is a great approach for many use cases though and you will need to have an extremely large database
to run into any issues here.
So this is definitely a fine approach and the approach we will use in this course
but I want to make you aware of this alternative,
again which you find in the last lecture of this module.
So now we get the adjusted post query and then we again execute it.
Now with this set up, let's save this and therefore update or restart our server
and now here with page size set to and page set to one, let's rerun this query and if I do that, I actually
get an error here.
Now that error is thrown because we're using an invalid type, limit field must be numeric.
Now by default and that's important, if you're extracting something from these query parameters, it will
always be a string because it's coming from the URL, it's treated as text.
We need to work with numbers here though and to convert these to numbers, we can simply add a plus in front
of both these,
well statements here. With that if we restart the server, now we can rerun that query and you see indeed,
we got less posts here
and if I bump my current page up to 2 now, whoops 2, then we only got one post because we are fetching two posts
per page and we are on page two.
If we have three posts in total, that means on page two is only one post because
the first two posts were on page 1.
So that's the back-end logic, the next step is to connect Angular to that and to use these query parameters
to only fetch the data we need on the front-end.